So we achieved a lot.
We're able to write data fetch data.
Use our token to scope data or to scope.
Products and orders to our currently locked end user.
We are able to log in and so on.
And that's all nice.
One thing where we're not doing right now is we're not persisting our recessions.
So to say if I reload I always have to log in again.
That's not really what I want.
It would be nice if we could automatically log in if we do have a valid token.
And for this we need to do two things we need to store the token somewhere on the device not in redux
because redux is in memory and this will be lost whenever the app restarts.
So it needs to be somewhere on the hard drive of the device.
So to say and in addition we need to check that storage whenever our app starts and automatically set
the token in redux and redirect the user if we do find a valid token there.
Now let's start with storing because that's a logical first step to a store where we need to import
something here in what's not in the products action creator.
But actually here in the off action creator there you need to import async storage from React Native
with that imported.
We can use that to then save data to the device async storage is a React Native API that in the end
uses a key value storage on the device which is available both on ISIS and Android where we can store
data that persists across app relaunches so which we can use to save data that is not lost when the
app launches or restarts.
So add a new function save data to storage or anything like that.
And there I expect to get my token and my user I.D. the two pieces of data I'm interested in here and
we can now use the async storage to then set an item which is how you save data and that item which
you said needs to be a string.
But first of all you need to define a key and all named user data.
But that's up to you you will need that key later to retrieve your data.
And the second value now is a string.
So the string which you want to save in there and you must save a string essentially.
Now that's no problem.
We can use Jason string you fly to convert a javascript object to a string and the object which I want
to convert is object that holds my token which I get as an argument here and it holds to user idea which
I get his argument.
So in the end we then save this object as a string to the device.
Now we just need to call safe data to storage whenever we're done logging in or signing up.
So here maybe after dispatching logging we can call safe data to storage and forward rest state DOT
I.D. token and rest state DOT local I.D. So the same things we use in redux and we definitely want to
use them there because redux is important for the running application.
But I also save it to the device for when we want to load it when the app restarts.
Now however data alone won't do the trick and we of course all need to do it when signing up.
But that alone won't do the trick we'll need one extra piece of information here before we continue.
Do you know which we need to know how long the token is valid because you must not forget that eventually
it will expire which is why for logging in and signing up you get that expires and key in the response
which tells you in seconds how long it takes until well your token is invalid and firebase won't accept
that anymore.
We need to store that information as well because if we later come back if we restart the app after
free hours our token is probably invalid.
So we need to know when the token will invalidate.
So did we would we check that when the app restarts when we check whether we do have a token we know
whether that token we might find is actually still relevant or whether it's invalid already and we need
a new token anyways in which case we shouldn't order log into user.
So I want to store the expiration date.
Now we'll create expiration date here as a constant a new Date object which in the end should take the
current date and at the expiry time
now NEW DAY it takes a Date object but with get time we get the current timestamp in milliseconds since
the beginning of time so to say which is in the year 1970.
In javascript.
So that's an amount in milliseconds and cue that we can add rest data dot expires in.
This is an amount of seconds.
So we need to convert this to milliseconds and it's all the strings so we need to convert it to a number.
So here I'll add a plus here or simply pass and alternatively to convert this to integer and then I
multiplied it with 1000 to converted from seconds to milliseconds because gets time also gives us milliseconds.
Now what this gives me is a new timestamp in the future which is the current time plus the expiry time.
And I wrapped as into a never date object to convert it back from a huge millisecond number to concrete
timestamp Date object this expiration date is now what we also need to pass to save data to storage.
So here I expect to get the expiration date as well.
And we need to enclose this here.
So here I can name this expiry date maybe to mix things up.
This is my expiration date and dare I want to call this nice little two I's those string method which
we can call on date objects because this will convert it to a string in a standardized format which
I want to save.
Now this is what I want to do for signing up as well.
So this can be copied over there.
And this is what I want to do there as well.
Create the expiration date and save that to storage.
Now we're saving that to storage which is nice.
But now we also need to check this when we're logging in a nice way of doing that is to create a new
screen and I'll actually create this outside of my existing folders in the screens folder but never
in shop nor in user and I'll name this startup screen and you can name it whoever you want.
The idea is that I showed this screen whilst my app is booting up and I'm figuring out where the user
is authentic or not.
And this will be super fast.
Chances are we won't even see that screen when the upstarts in here.
We create a regular react component by importing react from react.
And in there I import stuff from React Native to be precise.
I need a view the activity indicator to show a loading spinner whilst the app is booting up and all
is established and all the async storage because here I also want to equity async storage to find out
whether we do have a valid token or not.
So here I don't have my startup screen component which is a regular react component and the style sheet
object here with style she'd create and the end we can export these startup screen like this now indie
component all simply percent the activity indicator here with a size of large and a color of colors
stock primary and for Dad you need to import that color is constant of course and also assign a little
style here to the view and I'll just take style start screen here which we can now add to the style
sheet and that should be very simple.
Lex one justify content center and a line item center for some vertically and horizontally centered
content now of course the real important stuff happens above the J is X code.
This is where we now need to check debasing storage for a valid token.
And I can do this with the help of use effect which allows me to run some logic here.
When does component mounted.
And indeed here I won't need any dependencies because here instead of use effect I now want to add a
new function which I'll named try sign up or try log in is more fitting and I use the separate function
because here I want to use async await which I can do by creating that inner function which I can now
call here.
Try log in because again async here on this function would you pass to use a fact would not really be
allowed in here and try log in.
The goal now is to check the async storage for a valid token so I get my user data here by accessing
async storage.
Dot get item and then use the key you used for storing.
So in my case that's user data but you must use whichever key you used in your off J.S. file in the
actions folder for storing your data with async storage so I retrieve this note the important thing
to know here is that get item like all async storage methods actually is asynchronous which means like
the name suggests I guess which means that you get a promise here so we can await this and this will
give us back our user data.
Now this is then D data as a string to convert it to piece of data we can work with.
I'll have my transformed data with Jason pass user data and this passes a string and Jason format and
converted to a javascript object or array now before even trying that I'll check if user data is not
true ish.
So if it's not set if we can't find any data for that key because then I know we're certainly not locked
in.
So here I want to return and not continue and do one important thing.
I'll use props navigation and navigate to the offscreen because this startup screen has to be added
to the Navigator.
So here we can import it import to startup screen from the screens folder of course start startup screen
and we add it to the main and navigator here.
So where we also have often shop and there at the very top I add startup and pointed my startup screen.
This means that this is the first thing I load here.
Now on this startup screen I'd therefore go to the off screen if we can't find a token so thanks to
the switch navigator I leave that screen and go to the off screen or to the off stack because I don't
find a token so if we make it past as a check we at least have some data but the token still might be
invalid.
So we will of course have the token the user I.D. and the expiry date which we can extract from the
transformed data.
Whips after this line here with this object.
D structuring syntax and these are the three pieces of data with the free exact same names as I store
it here in the off J Files.
Here we have an object with a token user I.D. and expiry date field.
That's what we store in async storage.
That's what I can retrieve here.
Now we need to check whether the token is still valid.
And for this I can recreate my expiration date by using new data and passing expiry date which is actually
a string in iso format to it.
And now we can edit if check and see if expiration date.
So to date when a token becomes invalid if it's smaller or equal to a new date which is the current
timestamp which means expiration date is in the past and if that's in the past then our token is invalid
it's old invalid if we can't find a token or.
Also if we can't find a user ready if any of the free conditions is true we have an invalid token or
an invalid user I.D. or anything like that.
So in that case I also want to return.
And of course navigate away to the off screen if we make it past does a check.
We do have a token we do have a user I.D. and the token is still valid.
So if you make it here I will call props navigation navigate shop to go to the shop screen and all the
important I need to log to user in and for Dad.
We need a new action because I don't want to send a request.
Now I just want to change some data and Redux so I'll add a new action creator here.
Export const authenticate maybe which takes my user I.D. and my token and which then is used to change
my data and redux.
And for that I will now add a new action identifier authenticate with a string of authenticate here
and use this here as a type authenticate attach my user I.D. which is my user I.D. here and my token
which is token I get as the argument and now this authenticate action is what I wanted to stamp patch
here on the startup screen.
But before I do that by the way we can also go back to the action creator and at the end of sign up
instead of dispatching my own custom sign up action here we can all dispatch authenticate and execute
this year.
This action creator and simply forward rest data dot local I.D. as a user I.D. and rest data.
Dot I.D. token as a token and do the very same at the end of log in.
So now I did indeed combine these two flows because and yet the same thing happens.
So now in the reducer and you offered user of course instead of checking log in and sign up we can simply
import authenticate and use this identifier here get rid of sign up and I'll just comment it out to
still lived here for reference because the same thing happens.
So now combining it makes sense because we all need it for this automatic log in.
So here I then all dispatch it here for it a manual log in and the manual sign up.
And of course now with that if you want to you can also get rid of log in and sign up here of these
two identifiers because we don't use them anymore.
But with that back to the start up screen here we can all have dispatched us.
And for Dad you just need to import used dispatch from react redux and import the action actions so
import everything as of actions maybe from the store folder from the actions folder and from the all
file there.
And then here at the beginning get access to the dispatch function by calling use dispatch.
And with that away label here we can add dispatch as a dependency but this will never change.
So the effect will never rerun and here after navigating to the shop I now all want to dispatch all
actions authenticate and forward the extracted user I.D. So this field here and extract the token.
So this field which I got from my async storage and that should now automatically log me in was a lot
of work let's see where that works the reload does I end up here on the log in screen because right
now I have no valid tokens stored in async storage.
So now if a try logging in here I am forewarned if I now reload I again end up here.
And that's great because now it is means that this seems to work and that token is stored.
Now of course it would be nice if we could also log out though because right now there's no way of doing
that.